Alright, Spring Boot Configuration, so
we've been relying on Spring Boot quite
a bit throughout the course and we were
lining on a lot of the magic of
Spring Boot and what Spring Boot has
been doing for us under the covers is it's
doing a lot of sensible configuration.
It's going out and configuring things
like data sources for us so we don't
have to. It automatically brings up a
configuration for an h2 in memory
database. So that all that configuration
is hidden from us and there's a lot that
it's doing that we have not looked at
and I want to get into some of the
configuration options and this is an
area that a lot of people struggle with
learning because there's so much
happening under the covers that they
don't see as they're going through that.
We've been depending on that because it
gives us a lot of capabilities. You saw
how fast we were able to bring up and
develop a web application but you've
probably been wondering, well there's a
lot of stuff going on when it covers. Yes
there is and throughout the course we're
going to start peeling back the layers
of Spring Boot but right now we're going
to take a look at Spring Boot
configuration and how we can work with
it and in the next video after this, I'm
going to show you how to debug and see a configuration report of what's going on.
So we'll start peeling back the covers
on Spring Boot. So I know Spring
Boot is kind of a black box right now
but as we progress to the course we're
going to work with it and see a lot more
of it and later in the course, I'm going
to step through and we'll completely
remove the Spring Boot out of the
project and we'll go step by step by
step so you can see all the
configuration stuff that you have to
manually provide with Spring Boot. So I'm
going to switch over to slide deck now
and show you some of the spring boot
configuration options. Alright we are
going to take a look at spring boot
configuration. Now we've already talked a
little bit about the dependencD
Management of Spring Boot. For Spring Boot,
both Maven and Gradle are supportive or
curated dependencies and this is
important because it gives you a set of
dependencies that's going to work out of
the box with that Spring Boot
version that you're on. Now each version
of Spring Boot is configured to work
with a specific version of the Spring framework and overriding the Spring
framework version is something that
you can do but
the Spring guys do not recommend that. So
you should be using whatever version of
spring boot matches that Spring
framework version and I know being in
enterprise development sometimes there's
dependencies further down the road
that's going to get you in trouble and
have conflicts. So this is kind of an
important thing you can do it but it's
not recommended. Then other building
systems such as ant can be used but it's
really not recommended because you
run into difficulties in getting the
curated set of dependency.
Now the Maven support is going to
inherit from a Spring Boot parent pom
and that parent pom is going to have all
the dependencies information in it and
whenever possible, don't specify
inversions in your pom. Allow the
versions to inherit from the parent pom. This is something important then and
I've seen experienced Java developers
get in trouble doing this because
they're specifying a version and you run
into version conflicts and sometimes
these conflicts can be really really
weird to figure out and get around. So
whenever possible you want to be using
the version specified inside the parent
pom and most of the major and popular
Java libraries are there in the
parent pom and this is all a curated set
of dependencies and it's been certified
to work with that specific version of
Spring Boot and all the versions of
Spring with it. So you can definitely get
into trouble so watch this when you're
doing larger projects. Now the Spring Boot
maven plug-in, basically
primary purpose of that is to do the
repackaging of the executable jar. You
also get some other commands in there
such as running Spring Boot. You can do
maven Spring Boot, call and run and it's going to bring up the
Spring Boot application. So a
couple functions of that and we'll be
demonstrating those functionalities in the course for sure. Then we have Gradle
support. The Gradle support is supported
by Spring Boot Gradle plugin and you're
going to need to have a Gradle 3.4 or
later and the Gradle plugin provides
the similar functionality that what
maven gets. You get a curated
dependencies packaging of the artifact
as a jar or a war and also allows you to
run the application command line. I'm thinking now, I'm primarily
focusing on Gradle or primarily
focusing on Maven and I think I wanna
introduce Gradle at some point in the
project just for fun so you can see the
the kind of test we are in. Hopefully I'll do a
product, some type of application
further down the line where we can get
to play with Gradle. Now the
documentation for Spring Boot does show
an example for ant and Ivy. You can do this
and the configuration uses Ivy and in
conjunction with the parent pom or the
starters to bring down the curated
dependencies. You can see the complete
directions on the official Spring Boot
documentation. I don't know how widely ant and
Ivy are used out there. The two big
contenders are maven and
Gradle. Not a lot of people are using ant. It's kind of painful unless you have
some weird legacy application. I don't
know how many of you guys will actually
see Ant and Ivy being used out in the wild. Spring Boot starters. This is a important
feature of Spring Boot and they're kind of
like plugins. It is a kind of sort of way to
look at them. They're top-level
dependencies and for a lot of the
popular Java libraries. There's literally
dozens of them. So if you can think of a
popular Java project like ActiveMQ
there's a starter for that, there's one
for RabbitMQ. So you need to get these
ready-made dependencies and basically
they're a pom that has the dependencies. It's not only for like ActiveMQ but it
also bring in all the related Spring
components. So it's kind of like a
ready-made dependency and of course
these are going to be curated
dependencies too so all the versions are
going to play happily together and they
do follow a convention. So they are all
now starting as 'spring-boot-starter'
and earlier versions of Spring, that
was not the case but this is something
that the team over epital has
standardized on. And to give you an
example, I have the spring-boot-starter-data-jpa and that's going to bring in
hibernate, Spring data JPA to work
with hibernate and then there's no
several Spring dependencies that are going to get
kind of get brought in also. So you get
the all the jars that you're going to
need to run that stack of Spring data
JPA and hibernate. Next we want to talk
about Spring Boot annotations. And we
have been seeing so far the Spring Boot
application and we've been using this
throughout the course so far and this is
kind of like a top-level annotation and
it's going to include three annotations
below it which gives us a lot of
functionality that Spring Boot brings. The first one is @Configuration. So
that class that we've been working with
is an actual Spring configuration class.
So that gets declared and you can
declare Spring Beans right in that class
like what we saw in the Java
configuration. Next is EnableAutoConfiguration
and it kind of does what it
implies. It enables the auto
configuration and Spring Boot is going
to make a lot of decisions based on
what's on the class path, what it finds
and then it's going to automatically
wire up components if you have not
defined them. So it makes a lot of
guesses on sensible defaults and then
finally is component scan. We didn't see
that, we saw an example of that in
our configurations when we want to
switch packages but the Spring Boot
application annotation brings in the
ComponentScan and that is what
gives us that functionality that we've
been relying on so far that's going to
go in and scan for components and all
the child packages from that route
package. Now of course we can go in and
disable things. Right now we have not
taken a look at all the dependencies
that are getting wired in with Spring Boot. But we can see those, we can go in
and disable those and I'm going to show
you how to get a list of what's going on
with Spring Boot to bring in those to
show a configuration report because
there's actually a lot of them and as
you get in more and more projects, I mean
you start seeing dozens, if not
hundreds of configuration classes are
getting brought in to wire up your
project for you. And it saves you a ton
of work because you're not doing it and now
you can exclude them. Where you have the
EnableAutoConfiguration, you can do an
exclude and then name a class for that
configuration then that configuration
will not get brought in.